README.md, before:

# Nix-based KernelSU Android Boot Image Builder

A set of nix packages (derivations) to build Android `boot.img` and AnyKernel installation zip files for given kernel source code.

# Packages

Currently I build boot images for 3 devices:

- `.#amazon-fire-hd-karnak`: Amazon Fire HD 8 2018. Kernel compiles, but KernelSU doesn't work for lack of 32-bit userland app.
- `.#moto-rtwo-lineageos-21`: Motorola Edge+ 2023, unofficial LineageOS 21. Working perfectly.
- `.#oneplus-8t-blu-spark`: OnePlus 8T, Blu_spark kernel for LineageOS 21. Working perfectly.

# How to add my own device

See `kernels.nix` for definitions of pipelines (builds for different devices).

Each kernel definition takes these arguments:

- `arch`: Kernel architecture, usually `arm64`.
- `anyKernelVariant`: Variant of AnyKernel used during packaging. Can have two values:
  - `osm0sis`: [Official version](https://github.com/osm0sis/AnyKernel3). Works with devices before Android Generic Kernel Image (GKI).
  - `kernelsu`: [Modified by KernelSU team](https://github.com/Kernel-SU/AnyKernel3). Works with devices using GKI.
- `clangVersion`: Version of clang used in kernel build.
  - Can be set to any version present in [nixpkgs](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs). Currently the value can be 8 to 17.
  - If set to `latest`, will use the latest clang in nixpkgs. Recommended.
  - If set to `null`, uses Google's GCC 4.9 toolchain instead.
- `enableKernelSU`: Whether to apply KernelSU patch.
- `kernelConfig`: Additional kernel config to be applied during build.
- `kernelDefconfigs`: List of kernel config files applied during build.
  - Older kernels usually have a single `_defconfig` file. Newer devices may have several.
  - If you're building for a open source third party ROM, check the `android_device_[Codename of your device]` repo and `android_device_[Codename of your device]_common` repo, take a look at the `BoardConfig.mk` and `BoardConfigCommon.mk`, and take note of all config files in `TARGET_KERNEL_CONFIG` variable.
  - If you do not have access to such repos, you will need to do some guesswork.
- `kernelImageName`: Generated kernel image name at end of compilation process. Usually `Image`. If you are unsure, again check the `BoardConfig.mk` or `BoardConfigCommon.mk`, and look for `BOARD_KERNEL_IMAGE_NAME`.
- `kernelMakeFlags`: Additional make flags passed to kernel build process. Can be used to ignore some compiler warnings.
- `kernelPatches`: List of patch files to be applied to kernel.
- `kernelSrc`: Source code of the kernel. Can be supplied with `fetchgit`, `fetchGitHub` or alike, or provided with [nvfetcher](https://github.com/berberman/nvfetcher), which is already set up in this repo.
- `oemBootImg`: Optional, a working boot image for your device, either from official OS or a third party OS (like LineageOS). If this is provided, a `boot.img` will be generated, which can be directly flashed onto your device.

# Use as Flake.parts module

If you want to build Android kernels in your own flake, you can import this repo as a [Flake.parts](https://flake.parts/) module:

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    flake-parts.url = "github:hercules-ci/flake-parts";
    nix-kernelsu-builder.url = "github:xddxdd/nix-kernelsu-builder";
  };
  outputs =
    { flake-parts, ... }@inputs:
    flake-parts.lib.mkFlake { inherit inputs; } {
      imports = [
        inputs.nix-kernelsu-builder.flakeModules.default
      ];
      systems = [ "x86_64-linux" ];
      perSystem =
        { pkgs, ... }:
        {
          kernelsu = {
            # Add your own kernel definition here
            example-kernel = {
              anyKernelVariant = "osm0sis";
              enableKernelSU = false;
              kernelDefconfigs = [ "lineageos_karnak_defconfig" ];
              kernelImageName = "Image.gz-dtb";
              kernelMakeFlags = [
                "KCFLAGS=\"-w\""
                "KCPPFLAGS=\"-w\""
              ];
              kernelSrc = path/to/kernel/source;
              oemBootImg = boot/amazon-fire-hd-karnak.img;
            };
          };
        };
    };
}
```

# License

GPLv3.

Commit message:

feat: add builder for `motorola edge s pro`(`pstar`) reset from backup_20241221

README.md, after:

# Nix-based KernelSU Android Boot Image Builder

A set of nix packages (derivations) to build Android `boot.img` and AnyKernel installation zip files for given kernel source code.

# Packages

Currently I build boot images for 3 devices:

- `.#amazon-fire-hd-karnak`: Amazon Fire HD 8 2018. Kernel compiles, but KernelSU doesn't work for lack of 32-bit userland app.
- `.#moto-rtwo-lineageos-21`: Motorola Edge+ 2023, unofficial LineageOS 21. Working perfectly.
- `.#oneplus-8t-blu-spark`: OnePlus 8T, Blu_spark kernel for LineageOS 21. Working perfectly.
- `.#moto-pstar-lineageos-22.0`: Motorola Edge 20 pro, LineageOS 22. Not Working perfectly.

# How to add my own device

See `kernels.nix` for definitions of pipelines (builds for different devices).

Each kernel definition takes these arguments:

- `arch`: Kernel architecture, usually `arm64`.
- `anyKernelVariant`: Variant of AnyKernel used during packaging. Can have two values:
  - `osm0sis`: [Official version](https://github.com/osm0sis/AnyKernel3). Works with devices before Android Generic Kernel Image (GKI).
  - `kernelsu`: [Modified by KernelSU team](https://github.com/Kernel-SU/AnyKernel3). Works with devices using GKI.
- `clangVersion`: Version of clang used in kernel build.
  - Can be set to any version present in [nixpkgs](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs). Currently the value can be 8 to 17.
  - If set to `latest`, will use the latest clang in nixpkgs. Recommended.
  - If set to `null`, uses Google's GCC 4.9 toolchain instead.
  - If set to `custom`, will use the `customGoogleClang` or `clangPrebuilt`.
- `customGoogleClang`: Google Clang.
  - `CLANG_VERSION`: Version of Google Clang to be used in kernel build.
  - `CLANG_BRANCH`: Branch of Google Clang to be used in kernel build.
  - `CLANG_SHA256`: SHA256 of Google Clang which you choose.
- `clangPrebuilt`: The clang used in kernel build if `clangVersion` == `custom`.
- `enableKernelSU`: Whether to apply KernelSU patch.
- `kernelConfig`: Additional kernel config to be applied during build.
- `kernelDefconfigs`: List of kernel config files applied during build.
  - Older kernels usually have a single `_defconfig` file. Newer devices may have several.
  - If you're building for a open source third party ROM, check the `android_device_[Codename of your device]` repo and `android_device_[Codename of your device]_common` repo, take a look at the `BoardConfig.mk` and `BoardConfigCommon.mk`, and take note of all config files in `TARGET_KERNEL_CONFIG` variable.
  - If you do not have access to such repos, you will need to do some guesswork.
- `kernelImageName`: Generated kernel image name at end of compilation process. Usually `Image`. If you are unsure, again check the `BoardConfig.mk` or `BoardConfigCommon.mk`, and look for `BOARD_KERNEL_IMAGE_NAME`.
- `kernelMakeFlags`: Additional make flags passed to kernel build process. Can be used to ignore some compiler warnings.
- `kernelPatches`: List of patch files to be applied to kernel.
- `kernelSrc`: Source code of the kernel. Can be supplied with `fetchgit`, `fetchGitHub` or alike, or provided with [nvfetcher](https://github.com/berberman/nvfetcher), which is already set up in this repo.
- `oemBootImg`: Optional, a working boot image for your device, either from official OS or a third party OS (like LineageOS). If this is provided, a `boot.img` will be generated, which can be directly flashed onto your device.

# Use as Flake.parts module

If you want to build Android kernels in your own flake, you can import this repo as a [Flake.parts](https://flake.parts/) module:

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    flake-parts.url = "github:hercules-ci/flake-parts";
    nix-kernelsu-builder.url = "github:xddxdd/nix-kernelsu-builder";
  };
  outputs =
    { flake-parts, ... }@inputs:
    flake-parts.lib.mkFlake { inherit inputs; } {
      imports = [
        inputs.nix-kernelsu-builder.flakeModules.default
      ];
      systems = [ "x86_64-linux" ];
      perSystem =
        { pkgs, ... }:
        {
          kernelsu = {
            # Add your own kernel definition here
            example-kernel = {
              anyKernelVariant = "osm0sis";
              enableKernelSU = false;
              kernelDefconfigs = [ "lineageos_karnak_defconfig" ];
              kernelImageName = "Image.gz-dtb";
              kernelMakeFlags = [
                "KCFLAGS=\"-w\""
                "KCPPFLAGS=\"-w\""
              ];
              kernelSrc = path/to/kernel/source;
              oemBootImg = boot/amazon-fire-hd-karnak.img;
            };
          };
        };
    };
}
```

# License

GPLv3.
